I am excited to officially launch my personal website and blog today!
Like many bloggers, I spent a long time reading other people’s blogs and debating whether I should start my own. At the end, I figured that it is worth the time and efforts, as well as the risk of changing my mind later or lack of audience. There are many reasons for one to start a blog. Some of the more “cliche” reasons include: personal branding, offering value to audience/society, connecting with other bloggers, building self-confidence, aiding self-reflection…All of these are true and big parts of why I am doing this. But here I want to highlight a couple of more unique reasons:

1. To practice and improve my writing: I find writing a rewarding activity. I may get stuck with content or word choice, and it may take many rounds of editing, but reading my own polished writing can be very satisfying. Writing allows me to better organize my thoughts, reflect upon them, and communicate them to others. It is such a valuable skill to have for career and life in general. Although English is my second language, and I didn’t start writing regularly until grad school, but nevertheless I believe that I can catch up with native Canadians through deliberate practice.

2. Share my perspective as a first-generation Chinese immigrant: from what I have read on the Internet, the blogging scene is dominated by white, English-speaking, middle to upper class people. It makes sense why – compared to immigrants, they constitute the majority, live in the mainstream culture, are more eloquent in English, and have more self-confidence living in this society. But this opens up the door for me to offer a more unique perspective in the blogging community, as well as stand out from the immigrant group where few people blog. Through sharing and networking on this platform, I also hope to decrease the social distance between the immigrant group and the native-born Canadians, change the society’s negative stereotype about immigrants, and foster mutual acceptance. I am doing this in real life as well, and this blog helps reach more people.

A significant portion of this blog’s content will be dedicated to my life as a runner. I will make posts to recap a training cycle or a big race, and look ahead to upcoming goals. There are lots of great people in the running community I want to connect with. I will also write about other life topics where I could offer interesting thoughts as they come up. I will try to share not just the highs but also the lows, because both allow human bonding and are important lessons to reflect upon.
